---
editor_options: 
  markdown: 
    wrap: 72
---

# Logical Fallacies

People are often surprised when they find out that I majored in
philosophy as an undergraduate. They think that philosophy has nothing
to do with the career I am trying to build in data science, or even that
the technical knowledge required for data science would be
insufficient.While I think they are quite reasonable in their
skepticism, I think that philosophy education is very useful for
learning data science. For this purpose, in this first post of this
series, I will talk about some data science topics that are related to
philosophy.

First of all, philosophy trains students to think critically and
logically, which is an essential skill for data scientists when
analyzing data, making predictions, and forming conclusions. The lack of
the ability to think critically and logically can lead to some problems
that you can encounter in every discussion and production. One example
of these problems is called logical fallacies.

A logical fallacy is an error in reasoning that results in an argument
being invalid or unsound. Logical fallacies are often used in arguments
to mislead or persuade an audience, rather than providing a valid and
logical support for a conclusion. There are many logical fallacies
associated with data science studies, although there are many more that
are irrelevant. Knowing these fallacies is the best way to avoid falling
into them. For this purpose, I prepared some of these fallacies in this
repository and illustrated them.

In this repository, you will see the following fallacies with examples
and explanations:

1.  Cherry Picking

2.  Hasty Generalization

3.  Data Dredging

4.  Post Hoc

5.  Survivorship Bias

6.  Cobra Effect

7.  Gambler's Fallacy

8.  Simpson's Paradox
